# A Solution for Developing Corpora for Polish Speech Enhancement in Complex Acoustic EnvironmentsThe script is part of the research described in the paper "A Solution for Developing Corpora for Polish Speech Enhancement in Complex Acoustic Environments". If you use the script and the data generated by it, cite the paper.# Project descriptionSpeech recordings can be a valuable source of information in various fields of science, such as linguistics, history, psychology, sociology, and medicine. However, real-life speech recordings are often made during spontaneous situations and in uncontrolled acoustic environments. As a result, they can contain much noise, which seriously affects speech intelligibility and may prevent further use of such recordings. The script builds the speech corpora explicitly using the Polish language and introduces unpredictable sound events as an additional layer of noise, in addition to the acoustic scene signals and reverberation. The script allows for generating any number of such simulated, real-life, noisy speech recordings based on publicly available data sources. The corresponding components of speech recordings, such as clean speech, events, acoustic scenes and reverberation, are saved in separate files that prepare the created corpora for training deep models. Additionally, adding a phase-inverted version of one of the corresponding components to a simulated speech cancels that component from the file. This feature makes the created corpora higly customizable and easily adjustable for various other problems like scene and event recognition or dereverberation.# How to runThe file generatePolSESSnit.m contains a section with important constants that need to be defined first. Most of these constants refer to the paths where data sources are stored on your hard drive. Therefore, you will need to download all necessary publicly available data sources to your hard drive. The addresses from where you can download the data sources are included as comments in this file. After downloading, you should define the data source paths on your own. You also need to specify the output directory of the new corpora, its name, the length of the mix (not less than 4 seconds), and specify how many files you want to generate for a particular subset. 